
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

[![Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/PublicHealthEngland/PHEindicatormethods.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/PublicHealthEngland/PHEindicatormethods?branch=master)

[![Coverage
Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/PublicHealthEngland/PHEindicatormethods/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/PublicHealthEngland/PHEindicatormethods?branch=master)

# PHEindicatormethods

This is an R package to support analysts in the execution of statistical
methods approved for use in the production of PHE indicators such as
those presented via Fingertips. It provides functions for the generation
of Proportions, Rates, DSRs, ISRs, SMRs and Means including confidence
intervals for these statistics.

Any feedback would be appreciated and can be provided using the Issues
section of the GitHub repository, or by emailing <PHDS@phe.gov.uk>

<br/> <br/>

## Installation

#### From GitHub using devtools

You can install the latest version of PHEindicatormethods from GitHub
with:

``` r
if (!require(devtools)) install.packages("devtools")

devtools::install_github("PublicHealthEngland/PHEindicatormethods",
                         build_vignettes = TRUE,
                         dependencies = "suggests")
```

Some users may receive a Lazy Load error following installation and
loading of this package using devtools in RStudio. In these cases,
please close and re-open RStudio and then re-load the package using the
library command.

#### From zip

Download this repository from GitHub and either build from source or do:

``` r
source <- devtools:::source_pkg("C:/path/to/PHEindicatormethods-master")
devtools::install(source)
```

<br/> <br/>

## Package Versioning

Following installation of this package, type
‘packageVersion(“PHEindicatormethods”)’ in the R console to show the
package version. If it is suffixed with a 9000 number then you are using
an unapproved development version.

Released versions of this package will have version numbers consisting
of three parts: <major>.<minor>.<patch> In-development versions of this
package will have a fourth component, the development version number,
which will increment from 9000.

See <http://r-pkgs.had.co.nz/description.html> for further information
on package versioning

## Package Contents

The package contains the following functions, datasets and vignettes -
see individual item documentation for full details

**Functions:**  
\- byars\_lower  
\- byars\_upper  
\- phe\_dsr  
\- phe\_isr  
\- phe\_mean  
\- phe\_proportion  
\- phe\_rate  
\- phe\_smr  
\- wilson\_lower  
\- wilson\_upper

**Datasets:**  
\- esp2013

**Vignettes:**  
\- Vignette for calculating DSRs for multiple geographies and time
periods  
(type ‘browseVignettes(“PHEindicatormethods”)’ to view in HTML)
